Work back in in this lesson we've got an exercise for you and this exercise is going to be dealing out
a number a deck of cards out to any number of players.
So this is determined by the user coming into your application.
It's first ask you how many players.
So we've got a choice we can go all the way up to fly players.
We can go down to one player.
So let's try four players and we can see that each one of the players gets a set of cards dealt with
them.
So there's four players that we had selected we can select three players and we can deal out cards to
three players.
So this is one full deck of cards.
Notice that all of the cards are unique and we are using functions very heavily within this application
in order to deliver this.
The results here.
So initially what we're going to do is we're going to use a couple of arrays and we're going to use
those kind of Us or default values for the cards and set those up and then we need to initiate several
different arrays.
So the first array is in order to start the dealing.
So to start the game and initiate that initial dealing of the cards.
So that means building out the cards shuffling the cards and then dealing a set of cards to each one
of the players.
And this can also change and fluctuate.
So the application has to be dynamic enough in order to be able to build up cards to any number of players
that they used or selected.
So you see here we can go all the way up to five players and each one gets a unique card from the deck.
So this game is based around four major functions.
And as I said starting the game.
So just initiating the game building out that player array and then also dealing out the cards.
So looping through all of the available cards and actually first we got to build the cards.
So looping through all the defaults in order to build all of these unique 52 cards in the deck.
So we know that it starts at two ends at Aces and there's four different suits to a deck of cards.
There's spades diamonds hearts and clubs.
And then next we need to shuffle the cards because once we build the deck it's not going to be any good
to us if the deck of cards is always in the same order.
So we do need to shuffle the cards.
And then lastly we deal out the cards and the way that you can look at functions is each one of them
has its own set of tasks to do.
And you create code in order to do those tasks.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and try it for yourself.
See if you can build out this application and I'm going to show you the solution coming up.
And as well you can pause the video at any point while I am providing the solution and then take it
from there and try it for yourself in order to build out the same functionally that I have here on the
right hand side.
So let's begin.
So the first thing that we do need to do is establish our default values here for the deck of cards
and I'm going to set up a couple arrays.
So one I've got suits and the other one is going to be the card face.
So these are the values that are on the cards.
So I do need to create several suits.
So I to start by creating suits up here.
So start with spades.
Next we're going to create hearts.
And next we're going to do clubs.
And then last but not least.
Diamonds and diamonds.
I'm going to use our short form and the reason I'm using that is because that's going to give me the
ability to output these A.S.C. characters.
So this is going to make more visually appealing.
And then I'm also going to set the colors as I build out the cards within the deck.
So the next thing that we need to do is set all of the face values of the cards.
So you know we can have twos we can have threes we can have fours we can have fives and going all the
way up to 10.
And then after that we need to build that Jok the queen the king and the ace.
So let's build those out.
So those are jacks Queens.
Kings and lastly ace.
So you can also put the ace first if you want it to assign values to them.
But that's actually not going to be one of the requirements here.
So you can do it actually in any order that you want as long as you get all 13 different faces for the
cards.
So the next thing that I want to do is set up some default or raise.
Now these arrays are going to be have to be global because we're going to need to access them for the
different functions and we are building out four different functions to accommodate all of the tasks
we need in order to run this application.
So the other thing that we need is we're going to build out the deck of cards within the cards array.
And the thing that we need to do is we need to have a place to hold the cards for the players so we're
simulating this as much as possible within real life where we're actually going to be dealing the cards.
So as we when we create the deck we're going to be taking the cards out of the deck and placing them
within the players or race and then we can loop through the players and output their results.
So that's what we see here on the right hand side.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to initiate the game.
So see here that we've got deal.
And when you look into the H Tim L we've got a function called Start deal.
So let's set that up first because that's the first function that we encounter.
And essentially this is the one that's going to control all the other functions and the order the functions
are going to get invoked.
So the first thing that we need to do is I want to actually clear out players.
So I want to make sure that I'm starting with a completely blank array.
And so what this will do is this will clear out the arrays.
So just in case I have already dealt out a set of cards and I want to deal out another fresh set of
cards I don't want any lingering values with them players or cards.
And that's where I'm just doing that where I'm just making sure that they're nice and empty.
So next what I want to do is actually build out this players a race so when I'm a multi dimensional
array and if you remember multi dimensional arrays they kind of look like this so you could initiate
the rate within this type of format.
So what we're going to do actually we're going to make it a little bit more dynamic so we're not going
to create any length for there.
That's not necessary within our initial scope.
So what we need to do is we need to grab the value that's held here within the number of players.
So let's go ahead and we're going to grab that.
So we're going to do that locally because we're not actually going to need this value outside of the
scope of this particular function.
So next Let's do number and documents get element by ID.
And this is where we're going to grab the value that's contained within player's So that's the value
here that input value there that we have.
So we're grabbing that.
And what we need to return back from there is the value.
So basically we're going to get it's a numeric format under none whatever values contained within here.
So the next thing that we need to do is let's build the cards so we can build the deck of cards.
And this is going to be a function to build the Kurds and next function.
We need to shuffle the cards and then the last function is going to be to deal the cards.
So now that we've established this
I want you to again if you haven't already paused the video and try it for yourself.
Build out this function to build the deck of cards build out the function to shuffle the cards.
So what this is going to be doing is this is going to randomize our array and our array is going to
be contained within cards so we can just pass that through.
And we're going to shuffle them and then return back that newly shuffled deck of cards.
And then lastly we want to deal out the cards.
And over here again I'll pass in that array for the cards themselves and now I want you to try it for
yourself so we know that we need to set up several functions.
So the first one is build cards so that one up the next one is going to be a function to shuffle cards.
And I'll give you a clue.
This is going to be just that randomising of the array values.
And then next we need to just deal out the cards.
So that's actually going to deal a deck of cards out to the users.
So go ahead and try to fill out these functions and I'll show you the solution coming up.